# Day 4 (continued)

In the tavern room, the stranger paces up and down the room, lost in thought. Temerity bellows for food before again addressing the stranger.

A sharp knock at the door sounds. Lavender looks at her comrades for approval before opening the door and seeing nothing. She glances down to see a tiny gnome with a large tray of food precariously balanced. The gnome stares up at her. She takes the tray from the struggling gnome, slightly bemused at the situation. The gnome simply continues to stare up at her, disconcerting Lavender. Temerity intervenes and asks whether or not the gnome has business with Lavender, although he refers to her as ‘my lady’. The gnome is taken aback and asks if she is, indeed, Temerity’s lady. Lavender places the tray down on a desk and watches the exchange. Temerity tries to talk the gnome in circles before finally agreeing that she is his lady. The gnome dreamily states his desire to climb her like a tree. Temerity agrees that this sounds like a good idea, but the gnome has other thoughts and demands that Temerity fight him for Lavender. Having decided that this has gone on long enough, Lavender slams the door in the gnome’s face and reprimands Temerity for his audacity. Theren simply watches the exchange uncomfortably, not quite understanding the dynamic nor its implications.

By this point, the strange monk has stopped pacing and is attempting to figure out the unusual vibe he senses from the group that he has fallen in with. He finds it hard to believe that such a group could exist together in any way harmoniously. Temerity and Lavender begin to question him about his activities, refocusing his thoughts. He tells them that he has been working his way through the major cities of the north-west, searching for clues as to the whereabouts of the missing members of his order. His brother Corvus is searching the south-west. Two others are in the east. He is in contact with his brothers as often as is possible, using animal messengers, but he can go for days without contact. He informs them that the abbess went missing from their monastery to begin with. The First Fist then went to search for her, but she too vanished. A third member is also missing. Temerity asks if the monastery’s defences could have been penetrated by an invisible griffin. The monk is troubled by all of this and is clearly worried for his friends. He begins to get angry at the ostensibly flippant demeanour of the group. Lavender sympathises and quietens. Temerity, too, notices the frustration and uncharacteristically decides to stop talking.

The monk calms and informs them that the monastery is very difficult to find for outsiders. Lavender then suggests that perhaps it wasn’t an outsider, but an insider – a traitor. The monk doesn’t want to believe this. When asked about possible guests to the monastery, he agrees that there are some rarely but their memories of the location are always wiped before they leave. Theren asks him about enemies of the Order, but he states that they don’t try to make enemies. He is evasive regarding specifics. There were two new members of the Order expected recently, but only the First Fist knew of their location.

Temerity announces that he wants to investigate the plague in the Mightrest, as it seems the most logical starting point. The monk states that he was here investigating as he’d hoped a member of the Order had been seen near here. He believes that the plague is magical in origin and that, therefore, there is a source to destroy. When asked, he tells Theren that his name is Orion.

Temerity calls for a short rest and consumption of the snacks before the investigation begins. Together, the four of them eat and rest for a short midday repast. Theren uses the opportunity to apologise to Orion for Temerity’s behaviour and demeanour and manages to begin to make a connection with him, something that is unusual for him.

After the break, Temerity states that he wishes to engage with the gnome. Lavender thinks this is a bad idea and tells Theren that he should do it. Theren is reluctant but agrees. Temerity argues with Theren and Lavender loses her temper, kicking them both out of the room. Theren storms off huffily to seek the gnome. Temerity instead goes to find the innkeeper. Lavender remains quietly in the room, deciding to have a bath while she has the room to herself, for Orion is meditating unobtrusively in the corner.

Theren finds the gnome in the kitchen, standing atop three balanced stools and cutting up slices of meat with a cleaver. Theren addresses him awkwardly and asks about the plague. The gnome informs him that it came in about six months ago, accompanied by thick cloud cover that hasn’t dissipated since that time. He tells Theren that the symptoms of the plague include getting weak, then pale and then cold and lethargic. By that point, they get taken to the big house on the hill at the top of the village. When asked who lives there, he doesn’t know. He also states that no-one taken there to recover has returned as yet. Nobody visits the afflicted there either. From the description, Theren already realises that this isn’t a disease and must be being caused by a creature of some sort. The gnome informs him that a lady called Cella down by the gates has the plague and has already become very pale. Theren thanks him for his assistance and heads off to find her and examine her symptoms.

Temerity, meanwhile, has located the innkeeper at the bar. The half-orc is cleaning up after lunch. Temerity asks about the gnome and the innkeeper’s immediate assumption is that the gnome has caused trouble for Temerity. Temerity states simply that he wants to punch the gnome. At this, the innkeeper tells him where the gnome is and asks if he can watch, for he intensely dislikes the gnome. He even offers Temerity some brass knuckles, which are declined. The innkeeper leads Temerity to the kitchen and places a crystal orb down on the counter. Temerity, even curious, asks if he can have a crystal orb too. The innkeeper says that he might make him one later.

Temerity strides across the kitchen and kicks the stool out from underneath the gnome. The gnome, having leaped off the stool just in time, throws away his cleaver and jumps at Temerity, grabbing hold of one of his horns and yanking hard. Temerity pulls Guido from his bag and persuades him to bite the gnome, stating that it tastes like cheese. Gullible Guido agrees but is disgusted by the taste. He does, however, prevent the gnome from punching Temerity in the head. Temerity deals with the clinging gnome by smashing his head into the kitchen counter, gnome and all. The gnome comes out of the this bloodied and bruised but continues to ineffectually swing his fists around. At this, the innkeeper intervenes, throwing Temerity over his shoulder and grabbing the gnome in his free hand. He takes them both into the bar and throws them into plush armchairs, forcing beakers of water into their hands and telling them in no uncertain terms to sip the water. Temerity begins to bond with the gnome through their respective concussions. He tries casting healing word on himself, but it fails to lessen his disorientation. He insists that he wants to return to his room but Guido remonstrates with him, telling him to stay where someone can see him. Temerity replies that Lavender is upstairs. Guido is unconvinced, asking Temerity if he thinks Lavender won’t simply make things worse. Temerity says that he’s counting on it, slurring his words heavily. The innkeeper, fed up of the noise, grabs Temerity and the gnome and hefts them up to the room.

Lavender has bathed and is now cleaning her armour. When the innkeeper knocks on the door, she readies her dagger. Peeping through the door, she sees the innkeeper with Temerity over his shoulder and the gnome in one hand. Lavender lets him in and asks if Orion can have his own room. The innkeeper replies that if she deals with the two reprobates in his stead, she can have whatever. Lavender asks his name, to which he replies that it is Gorg. Temerity and the gnome, both still concussed, are rambling incessantly. Lavender smothers Temerity with a pillow to shut him up and Orion does the same to the gnome. Temerity asks Lavender to punch the gnome. Lavender forces a healing potion into Temerity’s hand and smacks the gnome through the pillow, knocking him out completely. Temerity collapses back and drinks the potion. His concussion begins to clear, but he remains dizzy and unfocused.

Gorg returns with a room key for Orion. Lavender picks up the gnome and hands it to Gorg, who is thoroughly exasperated, explaining that were the gnome not such a good cook, he’d probably have bashed him himself by now. He takes the gnome from Lavender and then hands her a crystal orb, telling her to double tap it to watch. She watches Temerity’s altercation with the gnome in the orb, finding it rather amusing. Sitting back down, she rests while Temerity sleeps off the after-effects.

Theren has reached the gate and found the house where Cella lives. Throughout his journey, the thick cloud cover has remained in place with no light penetrating. Cella’s house has a white cross painted on the front door, upon which he knocks. It is answered by a tired man with a bald head and a large beard peppered with grey. Theren introduces himself as a wandering herbalist and asks to see the patient. Cella is deathly pale, with dry lips and brittle, lifeless, dull hair. A sheen of sweat coats her skin. There recognises this as vampirism. He gives the man some herbs, telling him to crush them and give them to her and warns him that under no circumstances is he to let anyone take her before running back to the inn.

When he arrives, Lavender is seated on the floor and has resumed cleaning her armour. He bursts into the room and blurts out that it’s a vampire. Lavender is concerned and wants to fight straight away, but Theren warns her that they need Temerity. She goes to inform Orion of the situation while Theren heads out of the city to find any useful herbs, but he only locates a few small berries. Lavender heads then to the alchemist’s stall for healing potions but finds that it is closed. Instead, she treats herself to a fur-edged cloak to combat the chill of the northern lands. The team collectively decides to wait until morning before heading up to the big house to face what lies within.

# Day 5

The following morning, refreshed and steeled, the party heads to the big house, accompanied by Orion. As they approach, they notice that the air becomes much, much colder. Lavender’s plan is to pretend to be one of the victims. She is quite pale anyway and has used charcoal to accentuate the effect. Theren and Temerity are escorting her. Temerity carries her sword and shield slung across his back. He leaves Guido and Korako on the floor outside the house to hide. Lavender wraps her fur cloak around her and looks haggard. Temerity eschews the obvious thick bell pull and hefts the large brass door knocker, which is shaped like a tiger. The knock echoes throughout the house.

After a short wait, the door slides open slightly. All inside is deathly silent. A massive entrance foyer greets them, with four stone columns holding the vaulted ceiling. Between the two on the right hand side is an old grand piano, coated with dust. On either side of the room are two pairs of double doors leading to other rooms. A large staircase rises directly ahead of them before splitting at a small landing to the left and right. In the centre beyond the landing, a dais is elevated containing massive pipe organ. The staircases lead up to a balcony and other door can be seen leading off the balcony. Beneath the staircase on the left, a single door leads further back into the house.

In the centre of the raised landing stands a shadowy figure. His voice a whisper, he asks them what they want. Temerity explains that their companion is ill and that they had heard that this is the place to bring people to be healed. He explains that they are merely humble travellers, seeking succour and aid. The figure asks what is wrong with her. Temerity replies that she is deathly pale, cold to the touch and unresponsive. The shadow tells them to leave her there and that she will be taken care of. Lavender inclines her head slightly, indicating that she agrees with them leaving her there. However, nobody moves. Temerity asks if that is an organ behind the figure. Lavender puts a hand on his forearm to caution him against anything rash. The shadowy figure ignores the question and replies again that their companion should remain and asks the rest of them to leave so that the process can begin. Temerity repeats his question about the organ. The figure firmly commands them to leave. Temerity asks if he can play the organ. The figure pauses before saying that this could be arranged. However, he tells Theren and Orion that their work there is concluded. Theren says that they would prefer to remain with their companion. Two pale figures appear as if from nowhere and flank them as the shadowy figure leads them upstairs to the left and to a large room off the balcony filled with rows of hospital beds, all of which are occupied. Lavender lies down on the empty bed. The figure turns to face the rest, his face obscured by a hood, and assures them that she will be fine in no time. Theren looks at the people in the beds and realises that these people are not here to become vampires but are simply food: this room is a larder. He asks if they might freshen up before sitting with her as it has been a long journey. The figure replies that Temerity did ask to play the organ and leads them down towards it. One of the pale figures remains in the room with Lavender, while the other heads down the stairs to the door beneath them.

As a distraction, Theren telepathically orders Runcible to attack the grand piano. Runcible flies at it and begins to scratch the surface with his talons. Temerity casts mind read on the distracted figure and learns that this is indeed the vampire and his mind is suspicious of them. Temerity begins to play the organ and calls out to the vampire, asking what he is really going to do with Lavender. The vampire asks what he means, his thoughts becoming deeply suspicious, but also fearful. Temerity responds casually that it is a nice organ. The vampire is caught off-guard and thanks him for the compliment. Temerity calls out to Theren that the time is now.

Theren launches a fire bolt at the vampire’s back. The vampire shrieks and his hood flies off, revealing a skeletal face with huge fangs, long black hair in an intricate braid. His insane face is so gaunt as to look alien. Vampiric spawn appear from the right-hand balcony and off to Theren’s right. Temerity simply continues to play the organ. Theren moves back towards the grand piano and launches another fire bolt at the vampire. The vampire, instead of retaliating, attacks Temerity at the organ, biting him in the neck. Temerity uses hellish rebuke to burn the vampire. Lavender has heard the commotion and has leaped from the bed, charging at the spawn in the room with her and inflicting major damage with her dagger. More vampiric spawn appear from the door beneath the stairs and to Theren’s left. The spawn in the larder attacks Lavender but misses. The spawn to Theren’s right has closed and rakes Theren with its claws. The vampire continues to drink from Temerity in spite of its injuries, so Theren orders Orion, who has been standing on the stairs watching, to attack the vampire. Orion runs forwards, fists like a blur, pummelling the vampire off Temerity, who uses healing word on himself and mocks the vampire but to no effect before running off up the left-hand stairs towards Lavender. Theren turns to the spawn on his right that has attacked him and hits it with an agonising blast, causing it to shriek. He sends Runcible up to the balcony to assist Temerity. The vampire is trying to bite Orion but is blocked by a flurry of fists. Lavender tries to attack the spawn in the larder again but misses and chooses instead to disengage and run to Temerity to retrieve her sword and shield. The spawns from the front and left move in towards Theren in the centre of the foyer. The spawn in the larder moves to follow Lavender. The spawn on Theren’s right attacks him again. The spawn from the right balcony has reached Orion and tries to attack but is blocked. Orion retaliates and hits it with his pistoning fists. Temerity leaves Lavender to deal with the vampire and engages the spawn behind her from the larder, pulling out his crossbow. The spawn implodes with a howl. Theren, now surrounded by three spawn, shatters them. The one to the front avoids, the one to the left takes damage and the one to the right, which he has been engaged with since the beginning, is hurled catapulted backwards and the echoes of its bones snapping resound around the hall.

At the top of the left stairs, the vampire bites Lavender but in her rage, she forces his teeth from her neck. She then attacks the vampire herself but causes minimal damage. The two remaining spawn in the centre attack Theren, raking him with their icy claws. The spawn on the stairs continues to try and attack Orion but cannot get past his fists. Orion retaliates again and the spawn is pummelled into oblivion. Temerity shoots his crossbow at the vampire, but the bolt bounces off him. Theren shatters the spawn near him again. The one in front is damaged and the one to the left is smacked backwards into a pillar, pulverised into a black ichor stain. The vampire clamps down on Lavender’s jugular and begins to drain her. Lavender drinks her potion of fire breathing, which warms her throat with its spiciness. Colour comes to her cheeks and she belches fire upon her foe. It burns angrily and the stench of singed hair fills the hall. Distracted by its master’s plight, the remaining spawn misses Theran. Orion moves up the left-hand staircase and attacks the vampire’s back with his fists of fury. Temerity heals Lavender and mocks the vampire. Theren tries to blast the remaining spawn but misses. He recalls Runcible, who bites its shoulder, clamping his teeth down. The vampire attacks Lavender again, who is so unsettled by her own fire-breathing that she misses her attack. However, more fire spills from her mouth and sears the vampire, although he still stands. The last spawn attacks Theren again and this time manages to hit. Orion athletically leaps over the battle at the top of the stairs to provide aid to Temerity and Lavender. Temerity shoots his crossbow at the spawn attacking Theren but he is too far away and the shot goes wide. Both Runcible and Theren fail to hit the spawn also. The vampire, sensing his end, launches a last, desperate attack on Lavender, causing her significant damage. Lavender leans back, feeling Temerity’s supportive hand on her shoulder, and plunges her sword through the vampire’s chest. She drips with purple-black blood and adrenaline courses through her as her foe collapses. The final spawn disintegrates. A chink of light creeps through the curtains and the stained glass windows make pretty patterns on the corpse of the vampire.