---
type: chronicle
location: "[[Adalens]]"
world: Grimmora
campaign: Campaign 1
characters:
  - "[[Lavender]]"
  - "[[Gage]]"
  - "[[Mary-Ann]]"
  - "[[Theren]]"
  - "[[Temerity]]"
  - "[[Anaphel]]"
---

# Day 31 (continued)

The party reunites. [[Lavender]] is worried about being tailed. She asks [[Gage]] to keep a look out. He doesn’t notice anything in particular. They head for the shopping district. There is a general hubbub developing. There is wide racial diversity here. They are looking for [[Sargonnas|Sargonis]]’ colours: ember red, grey, dark grey. [[Lavender]] and [[Theren]] know this and that worshippers of [[Sargonnas|Sargonis]] are unlikely to make themselves obvious; worshippers are not considered particularly welcome in society.

[[Mary-Ann]] finds a nice pair of boots. [[Theren]] finds a stall run by a young dragonborn with multiple piercings. The staves are all out of his price range, even though he offered to work off the debt. The seller was only interested in gold, not favours.

They find some job postings: a kidnapped clerk, some hoodlums at a tavern, wild animals on a farm, and some stolen jewellery. [[Theren]] wants to take on the hoodlums, [[Gage]] wants to investigate the burglary, [[Mary-Ann]] wants to find the kidnapped clerk. The clerk job pays the most so [[Lavender]] decides to go after the clerk. The notice says to speak to Marvis Colton at Silken and Spindle. They head there. It is a big textile shop offering high-quality clothing. An older human is working in the shop with a dressmaker’s dummy. [[Lavender]] presents the notice.

Petra Greenfield, the clerk, is young but sharp with numbers. She was abducted 3 days ago from the warehouse district. He suspects his rival, Theron Vex. She had 200 gold and plenty of material on her. He advises them to start over in the warehouse district. She is a half-elf, 17, with very dark hair and very pale skin. He’s offering 75gp each, plus 50gp if she is unharmed. He says that guards or urchins may know something. She had no enemies that he knows of. She lived near the outskirts of the market square. They can also check the ledgers if they wish. [[Gage]] goes to speak to the urchins, [[Theren]] goes to check the ledger and [[Mary-Ann]] heads to her lodgings.

[[Mary-Ann]] heads to the lodgings. Nothing seems out of the ordinary. There is food in the fridge, the bed is made and there are no signs of an altercation. Work has been left out on the table. She can see that nothing is massively amiss here. [[Theren]] examines the ledgers with [[Lavender]]. It includes estimated sales for Vex Silks. Marvis is doing very well, especially in comparison to Vex. Captain Holloway appears quite a bit in the ledger. It is always the last name in the ledger at the end of the day. The handwriting over the last 3 days has changed and there are more errors, but nothing else significant.

[[Gage]] looks at the kids pickpocketing and others that are running around with things. He speaks in [thieves’ cant](https://2014.5e.tools/languages.html#thieves'%20cant_phb) but the kids do not respond. He tells the kids in normal speech that he’s working for their boss and checking up on them. The kids are evasive about what they’re doing. One kid disappears into the crowd to do their delivery. [[Gage]] pickpockets a likely tourist mark to impress the kids. He asks about Petra. They want a gold piece each. [[Gage]] decides to give them the gold. The kids tell him that a girl was being dragged towards the old mill near the warehouse district. She had a bag and she was crying. The kids scarper.

They all meet up at the shop once more and share their information. [[Mary-Ann]] knows that Captain Holloway is a smuggler ship captain. She is known for her discretion. They head to the warehouse to speak to the guards. They direct them to speak to Garratt, who was on duty that night. He’s a stocky, dwarven guard. He says that he hasn’t seen her in a while. [[Lavender]] asks if he’s sure – she can tell that he’s lying. He confesses he saw 3 cloaked figures and heard a smash of a bottle. [[Temerity]] uses [detect thoughts](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#detect%20thoughts_phb) to scan the surface of his mind. He sees money changing hands before the bottle is smashed. [[Lavender]] intimidates him into revealing the truth. He was paid to look the other way and forget what he saw. The person was hooded and cloaked. The hand that gave the money was scarred.

The mill is derelict. It has been partially destroyed by fire. The windows are all boarded. A front entrance and a side entrance. As they approached, the smell of smoke and rotting wood is overwhelming. Three crates are stacked outside. Something has been delivered recently. [[Gage]] climbs a tree and hides near the main entrance. [[Lavender]] and [[Temerity]] enter through the main entrance. [[Anaphel]] guards the side entrance and [[Mary-Ann]] and [[Theren]] enter through the side door. They head in. [[Mary-Ann]] and [[Theren]] are stealthy, while [[Lavender]] strides in followed by [[Temerity]]. As they listen, there are voices coming from upstairs. A stone staircase leads up to the second level. They listen to the voices. They hear footsteps pacing and a fire crackling and three muffled male voices that seem to be disagreeing with one another.

[[Lavender]] gestures for them to hide. [[Temerity]] decides not to and instead starts to play his lute. The pacing and voices stop. Someone comes down the stairs holding a crossbow. He calls out a challenge. [[Temerity]] is standing “rehearsing” and [[Theren]] is his test audience. As [[Temerity]] ends a verse he switches to an instrumental and tells the man that he is just a humble bard. He tells [[Temerity]] to leave or he will shoot. [[Theren]] and [[Temerity]] begin to bicker. [[Temerity]] uses [vicious mockery](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#vicious%20mockery_phb) against the man. [[Mary-Ann]] shoots the guy in the stomach and causes him significant damage. She then hides herself. Outside, [[Gage]] hears a female voice shouting to get rid of the intruders. Three thugs move down the stairs into the mill’s ground floor. [[Lavender]] charges forwards and shoves the wounded thug into a wall, knocking him out. She intimidates the other two thugs. They shout for the boss to come down. They move to flank [[Lavender]] but do not attack.

A woman in a cloak descends the stairs. She points a crossbow at them. [[Lavender]] replies that they’ve come for the girl. [[Mary-Ann]] calls the woman by name: Captain Holloway. Captain Holloway refuses to give up the girl. She was hired by Vex Silks to kidnap her. [[Mary-Ann]] haggles and agrees to give them 22 gold to take the injured thug and leave without the girl. [[Lavender]] hands over the gold and they go. The girl is tied to a chair upstairs. [[Lavender]] unties her. Her satchel is still there, intact. She offers her assistance with decoding messages or understanding figures or contracts. They return her to Marvis. He is thrilled to see her. He pays them 500 gold as a reward. [[Gage]] asks for clothes that will make him look like he belongs to the [[Mages' Guild]]. [[Theren]] opines that they should confront Vex Silks about the kidnap attempt. [[Lavender]] wants to retire for the night. [[Mary-Ann]] writes a brief note to her goddaughter.