**Day 10 (continued)**

Lavender gather Temerity and Theren and brings them to a training area. The elven wizard is there. At her request, he summons a pair of water elementals. Lavender remains outside the training area, watching. Her only instruction is that they should train at being a team.

The first elemental rushes over to Theren and uses a slam attack, bring two heavy water extrusions down upon him. Temerity tries to mock it but fails, but he succeeds in healing Theren, who calls him over to him in an attempt to make the elementals bunch together so he can use his more powerful attacks. The second elemental rushes over to join them. They are now all bunched up together in one corner of the training arena.

Theren triumphantly casts hunger of Hadar, enveloping both elementals, but leaving him and Temerity just outside it. However, the elementals have a trick that he knows nothing about. The first elemental moves into water form and move out of the Hadar sphere, enveloping Theren completely. In a mad panic, Theren manages to push himself out of the elemental. Temerity mocks the one still trapped inside the Hadar sphere and causes some damage. The second elemental manages to move out of the sphere of damage too, just to the side of Temerity, and slams him. Temerity takes damage, but uses hellish rebuke to get his revenge.

Theren, in close quarters to the first elemental, trapped up the corner of the arena, uses agonising blast and Runcible helps by stinging it, although it is immune to poison. The first elemental retaliates with another slam attack. Temerity tries mocking it, but it does nothing. He heals Theren. The second elemental moves in and succeeds in enveloping Temerity, but he manages to use his bardic inspiration to mitigate much of the damage. Theren blasts the elemental now surrounding Temerity and Runcible tries to bite it, but he cannot – it moves to erratically.

The first elemental manages to fully envelop Theren just as Temerity manages to break free from the hold of the second. He quickly heals Theren now that he can speak again. Furious at the loss of its target, the second elemental slams Temerity, but he uses cutting words to avoid the attack. Theren manages to break free from the first elemental and escapes by passing through the Hadar sphere and out the other side behind the second elemental. Runcible flies over and stings it. The first elemental now moves to envelop Temerity, who struggles against it but cannot break free. The second moves to envelop Theren, but it fails and instead pushes Theren into the Hadar sphere. He takes damage from his own spell, but quickly leaves the sphere and blasts the elemental that pushed him in. Runcible again fails in his attack due to the unpredictable movements of the elemental.

The first elemental increases its hold on Temerity and he passes out. The second slams Theren and knocks him out too. The wizard raises his hand and both elementals dissipate – it seems as though they are sucked up into the air and vanish.

Theren and Temerity come round and Lavender enters the arena, leaning down to help them both up. Temerity eagerly takes her hand, bounds up and asks if they can do it again. Theren shuns her hand and stalks off. She calls to him, as does the wizard, but he ignores them both and leaves, feeling ashamed, humiliated and thoroughly despondent.