---
type: chronicle
location:
  - "[[Durvish City]]"
  - "[[Avalonean Empire]]"
world: Grimmora
campaign: Campaign 1
characters:
  - "[[Lavender]]"
  - "[[Gage]]"
  - "[[Theren]]"
  - "[[Temerity]]"
  - "[[Anaphel]]"
  - "[[Mary-Ann Mayfield]]"
---
# Day 24 (continued)

[[Gage]] fires his bow at the captain, piercing superficially. [[Mary-Ann]] stealths and moves to attack the brute in front of [[Lavender]] with her shortsword, slashing it. The brute turns and attacks Mary-Ann with a reckless attack using its greataxe – she is knocked to the ground. The other brute swings at [[Theren]] and misses because of his [entropic ward](https://2014.5e.tools/classes.html#warlock_phb,state:feature=s5-0~ishideoutline=b1~sub_great%20old%20one_phb=b1). The mages use [toll the dead](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#toll%20the%20dead_xge) against Theren – he takes massive damage, but his Hadar remains in place. Theren retaliates against the brute that hit him, using [Raulothim’s psychic lance](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#raulothim's%20psychic%20lance_ftd), incapacitating it. He activates his [cloak of flies](https://2014.5e.tools/optionalfeatures.html#cloak%20of%20flies_xge). The two rear marauders move around the Hadar field next to the mages. The marauder in front of [[Anaphel]] attacks Mary-Ann, who is on the ground. [[Temerity]] uses [eldritch blast](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#eldritch%20blast_phb) against the marauder attacking Mary-Ann, hurting him mildly. Lavender turns around and attacks the incapacitated brute, hurting it badly. The captain charges forwards to hide behind the standing brute and screams – Gage, Lavender and Theren are feared. He elbows the brute and boosts it to gain an extra attack against Lavender – it swings its axe and she has lost her rage because of her fear. Anaphel mutters a prayer and from the sky an icy shard falls. It opens to reveal a sword and shield, releasing a [guardian of faith](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#guardian%20of%20faith_phb).

Gage drops his [hunter’s mark](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#hunter's%20mark_phb) from the marauder by Anaphel and casts [hail of thorns](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#hail%20of%20thorns_phb) on his arrow, firing at the captain. The captain takes serious damage. The brute beside him also takes minor damage. Mary-Ann scuttles underneath the brute and slashes it with her dagger as she passes. The incapacitated brute takes damage from Theren’s cloak of flies and it doesn’t move. The guardian of faith slams its sword up to the hilt into the incapacitated brute. It freezes solid and explodes into ice fragments. The other brute takes damage from the guardian also. It roars in fury and attacks Mary-Ann with a slam, but only causes minimal damage. One of the mages tries to climb a tree but the branch snaps and it falls to the ground. It lands next to Mary-Ann. It uses [hold person](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#hold%20person_phb) against Theren and Lavender. Theren feels his muscles begin to seize, but the golden light relaxes him. Lavender’s muscles seize up and she is paralysed. The other mage moves behind the marauders and creates a massive lance with poison dripping from it and the spirit weapon attacks Theren, causing him light damage. Theren is too scared to do anything. His agonising blast fails to hit the brute. He creeps forward next to the brute and Lavender. The marauder by Anaphel attacks Lavender but it bounces off her armour. The marauder behind the mage by Mary-Ann launches a net at her and she is captured; it then moves backwards. The other marauder moves to a flanking position. Temerity uses eldritch blast against the brute. [[Chikatika]] sits on his shoulder and the power blasts forth; the brute screams as it morphs into a tree. He uses [healing word](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#healing%20word_phb) to heal Theren. Theren’s cloak of flies hurts Lavender, keeping her enraged. She gasps with breath and her muscles release from paralysis. The captain walks over Mary-Ann in the net and tries to attack her. The net deflects the first attack, but he manages to stab between the net and hurt her. He shouts an order at the marauder by Anaphel but it fails to hit Lavender. Anaphel fails to hit the marauder in front of them with their mace.

Gage fires against the captain, but hits the tree instead. Mary-Ann escapes from the net and disengages, moving backwards to stand beside Gage’s tree. The paralysis from the mage tries to take Lavender and Theren, but both resist it. The spiritual weapon fails to hit Theren. The other mage fires dark magic at Theren, Lavender and Gage, but they all resist it. Theren uses agonising blast against the mage in front of him. The mage goes deathly pale as golden light penetrates him. Theren shakes off his fear. The marauders move – the furthest round moves next to Mary-Ann and tries to attack her with a sword but misses; the rear one moves up next to the injured mage and uses his crossbow against Theren, wounding him badly; the marauder by Anaphel fails to hit Lavender and Anaphel with his sword but takes damage from the guardian of faith. Temerity blasts the injured mage with his eldritch blast, transforming him into a small shrub. He provides Lavender with [bardic inspiration](https://2014.5e.tools/classes.html#bard_phb,state:feature=s0-0~ishideoutline=b1). Lavender uses reckless attack against the marauder by her, hurting him badly. She finally shakes off her fear. The captain moves around the tree and stands beside the marauder and Lavender and attacks her. He causes minimal damage and orders the marauder to attack her also, causing minimal damage. Anaphel creates a pillar of ice around the marauder in front of them and the captain. The captain dodges it but the marauder takes a hit from the ice.

Gage fires his bow against the captain, causing damage. He shakes off his fear. Mary-Ann disengages from the marauder by her, moves around the tree and sneak attacks the captain with her bow. He takes damage but is still going strong. The spirit weapon swings at Theren, hurting him. The mage moves forwards to stand beside the captain. He uses [bane](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#bane_phb) – Mary-Ann and Theren are affected. Theren uses [poison spray](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#poison%20spray_phb) against the mage, dousing him with poison. The marauder by Gage’s tree launches a net at him. He is restrained but he doesn’t fall out of the tree. The marauder by Anaphel attacks Lavender but it glances off her armour and the ice sword decapitates him, freezing the blood in his neck as it spurts. The last marauder comes next to Theren and swings its sword. Theren is badly wounded. Temerity walks over to Theren and heals him. He uses bardic inspiration again upon Lavender. He moves away again, prompting the marauder to attack him. Temerity uses [hellish rebuke](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#hellish%20rebuke_phb), launching fire back at the marauder. Lavender moves around the captain to attack the mage. She slices downwards with her sword and lops off his head with one swing. On the return swing, she hits the captain. The captain yells at his remaining troops. He turns and attacks Lavender, causing minimal damage to her. He twirls around to flank her. Anaphel creates an icy shield. They go to send it to Lavender, but instead send it to Theren.

Gage attacks the net but he doesn’t manage to cut it. He falls out of the tree, hurting himself. Mary-Ann moves behind the tree and shoots her bow at the marauder standing beside Gage but she misses. Theren uses agonising blast against the marauder beside him. He is looking hurt. The marauder by Theren takes damage from the cloak of flies. He attacks Theren, wounding him. The marauder by Gage slashes at him in the net, wounding him. Temerity uses eldritch blast against the marauder by Theren. The marauder morphs into a sunflower. Lavender turns and swings against the captain with her greatsword. He is badly hurt. Mary-Ann shouts to Lavender not to kill the captain – they want to interrogate someone. The captain multi-attacks Lavender. He even hits through her armour. He tries to run, but she bashes him with the pommel of her sword. The final marauder is astonished by the defeat of his captain. Anaphel runs over to Lavender, hugs her and uses [cure wounds](https://2014.5e.tools/spells.html#cure%20wounds_phb).

Gage reaches through the holes of the net and grabs the ankle of the final marauder beside him, grappling him. Mary-Ann walks round to the marauder and demands he surrender. The marauder falls to the ground crying for his mother.